
# pan
    import "github.com/DramaFever/pan"







## type Query
``` go
type Query struct {
    SQL           string
    Args          []interface{}
    Expressions   []string
    IncludesWhere bool
    IncludesOrder bool
    IncludesLimit bool
}
```
Query contains the data needed to perform a single SQL query.









### func New
``` go
func New() *Query
```
New creates a new Query object.




### func (\*Query) FlushExpressions
``` go
func (q *Query) FlushExpressions(join string)
```
FlushExpressions joins the Query's Expressions with the join string, then concatenates them
to the Query's SQL. It then resets the Query's Expressions. This permits Expressions to be joined
by different strings within a single Query.



### func (\*Query) Generate
``` go
func (q *Query) Generate(join string) string
```
Generate creates a string from the Query, joining its SQL property and its Expressions. Expressions are joined
using the join string supplied.



### func (\*Query) Include
``` go
func (q *Query) Include(key string, values ...interface{}) *Query
```
Include adds the supplied key (which should be an expression) to the Query's Expressions and the value
to the Query's Args.



### func (\*Query) IncludeIfNotEmpty
``` go
func (q *Query) IncludeIfNotEmpty(key string, value interface{}) *Query
```
IncludeIfNotEmpty adds the supplied key (which should be an expression) to the Query's Expressions if
and only if the value parameter is not the empty value for its type. If the key is added to the Query's
Expressions, the value is added to the Query's Args.



### func (\*Query) IncludeIfNotNil
``` go
func (q *Query) IncludeIfNotNil(key string, value interface{}) *Query
```
IncludeIfNotNil adds the supplied key (which should be an expression) to the Query's Expressions if
and only if the value parameter is not a nil value. If the key is added to the Query's Expressions, the
value is added to the Query's Args.



### func (\*Query) IncludeLimit
``` go
func (q *Query) IncludeLimit(limit int) *Query
```
IncludeLimit includes the LIMIT clause if the LIMIT clause has not already been included in the Query.
This cannot detect LIMIT clauses that are manually added to the Query's SQL; it only tracks IncludeLimit().
The passed int is used as the limit in the resulting query.



### func (\*Query) IncludeOrder
``` go
func (q *Query) IncludeOrder(orderClause string) *Query
```
IncludeOrder includes the ORDER BY clause if the ORDER BY clause has not already been included in the Query.
This cannot detect ORDER BY clauses that are manually added to the Query's SQL; it only tracks IncludeOrder().
The passed string is used as the expression to order by.



### func (\*Query) IncludeWhere
``` go
func (q *Query) IncludeWhere() *Query
```
IncludeWhere includes the WHERE clause if the WHERE clause has not already been included in the Query.
This cannot detect WHERE clauses that are manually added to the Query's SQL; it only tracks IncludeWhere().



### func (\*Query) String
``` go
func (q *Query) String() string
```
String fulfills the String interface for Queries, and returns the generated SQL query after every instance of ?
has been replaced with a counter prefixed with $ (e.g., $1, $2, $3). There is no support for using ?, quoted or not,
within an expression. All instances of the ? character that are not meant to be substitutions should be as arguments
in prepared statements.



## type WrongNumberArgsError
``` go
type WrongNumberArgsError struct {
    NumExpected int
    NumFound    int
}
```
WrongNumberArgsError is thrown when a Query is evaluated whose Args does not match its Expressions.











### func (WrongNumberArgsError) Error
``` go
func (e WrongNumberArgsError) Error() string
```
Error fulfills the error interface, returning the expected number of arguments and the number supplied.









- - -
Generated by [godoc2md](http://godoc.org/github.com/davecheney/godoc2md)